A playground for interfacing Arduino and Flight Gear. Both projects are open source, are popular and underactive development.

 * *Arduino* - is a microcontroller at [http://www.arduino.cc/ arduino.cc]
 * *Flight Gear* - is flight simulator at [http://wiki.flightgear.org flightgear.org]

This project has no plan and was created after an exchange on the FG mailing list so ideas could be shared. Through collaboration it might end up being of some purpose so if you interested please join in the fun.

Planning. Where do we go from here, what do we want to do with Arduino and Flight Gear?

==Flight==
Lets start with a typical hypothetical basic training aircraft and the minimum control surfaces required to achieve flying and landing.
 * Engine start
 * Brakes
 * Throttle
 * Rudder
 * Yoke 
 * Flaps
 * maybe landing gear, wipers, etc etc

==Arduino==
An Arduino board eg the Duemilanove http://www.arduino.cc/en/Main/ArduinoBoardDuemilanove has 
 * 14 digital pins configurable as either input or output
 * 6 analog inputs (analog output is by using a digital pin with http://www.arduino.cc/en/Tutorial/PWM)
 * An USB connector to interface with a PC (also provides power)
 * [Arduino] page

==FlightGear==
A full on flight simulator enviroment running can send/recieve data over a variety of protocols which can be set at startup.
 * Multiplayer - transmits byte packets in multiplayer mode
 * http - interface with a webbrowser
 * telnet - good olde telnet
 * sockets - recive/transmit/bidirection on a socket. Any number of sockets can be setup.
 * serial - communication to USB and serial
 * [FlightGear] page


==Collaboration==
How to make them work together is the interesting part, so after some research on the enviroment the following has been setup ([Project Hosting]how that was decided)

 * *fg-ardunio* project here on code.google.com. This is for wiki and issues.
 * *fg-arduino* code hosting at github.com - http://github.com/ac001/fg-arduino/